@You can <i>italicize</i>, <b>embolden</b> or <u>underline</u> portions of your messages by enclosing them with |, + or _ respectively. You can also avoid this by adding backslashes (they won't show in the message) before these characters.
Anything you can light a cigarette with, you can use to cauterize a bleeding wound.
Off access areas like the sewers and other maintenance areas can contain some valuable contraband. If you're a prisoner, making friends with the engineers may let you get into these areas.
Manhole covers are hard to pry off by hand, try using a crowbar, or at least be strong enough to not injure yourself.
Combine suits tend to have signal trackers on them, you may not want to wear them as a rebel.
As the Warden, you do not want to anger your benefactors.
As the Divisional Lead, you have had your mind altered enough that you physically cannot betray the Combine. Though, this does not mean you can't let some small crimes off the hook for a bribe.
As a Prisoner, try to find a good job right away. You'll probably be forced to work anyhow, and you'll also earn some credits for food, and likely a good chance to steal some contraband too.
Headcrab meat sells for money on the cargo train. Hunting them may be lucrative.
Water extractors are expensive upfront, but present a free source of income afterwards.
You can make rebar crossbows and ammo with scavenged materials. Look around for things like tape, cables, and lighters.
You can use a container to scoop water out from a tile, such as sewage. Actually drinking said sewage, is not recommended.
Xenian mushrooms sell for credits on the cargo train. Perhaps you could farm them?
Destroying leafy xen flora will drop their branches, which can be turned into a medkit with the crafting menu at a crafting bench.
Many items require specific crafting benches to make. You can find these benches in places like the Factory, Nexus, and Sewer rooms.
Eating raw meat runs the risk of contracting foodborne illnesses, but you can cook them to avoid this.
Yellow water cans have unpurified water, which sometimes harbor pathogens. Boil the water inside, just to be safe.
Fungal plates can be harvested from fungal zombies and armored headcrabs, and turned into makeshift armor.
River water is not safe to drink on its own, you'll want to boil it over an open fire first.
You'll need to sleep about every night so you won't be tired, but you can drink coffee stay awake longer, or anti-fatigue rations to relieve exhaustion. However, sleeping also will heal your injuries and organs, dependent on many factors like mood and your hunger.
Cloth is highly useful for making pouches, satchels, and bandages. You can get some by destroying mattresses, or butchering zombie corpses.
If you have spare meat and encounter some zombies you don't want to fight, try tossing the meat somewhere to lure them away as a distraction.
Useful locations are often barred behind locked doors, forcefields, and heavy combine doors. Thankfully, standard locked doors can be picked with makeshift lockpicks made from scrap metal at a crafting bench in the factory.
The name on someone's ID can tell you a bit more than just what they go by. A Civil Protection officer's specialization and experience is displayed by their callsign and rank respectively, and you can also see which cell a prisoner is assigned to.
Combine affiliated roles typically receive vouchers in their rations to reward prisoners with. Prisoners should consider snitching if low on income.
The antlion caves are a good source of grubs for recharging health stations if you can find them. Just keep an eye out for a particularly deadly variant of the antlion further in.
Other than the Divsional Lead's revolver, Nowy Jutro's guards and armory is only equipped for riots and have very few options in terms of lethal ammo. Civil Protection may consider crafting some in case of a major anti-citizen threat.
There are worse fates than death for particularly disobedient prisoners.
Certain guns have alternative fires which can be activated with RMB. This is typically only useful in Combat Deployment, where team leaders can purchase heavy ammo crates containing alt-fire ammo.
Cannibalism becomes increasingly less taboo during a famine.
Low sociostability allows outside rebel forces to sneak into the sewer systems of the prison and drop off care packages for any fledgeling resistance operatives inside. When sociostability gets low, search the sewers to find such packages.
